I-D for YANG module ietf-layer0-types-ext (#1)
ietf-ccamp-wg/ietf-ccamp-layer0-types-ext: draft-esdih-ccamp-layer0-types-ext-00.txt

CCAMP                                                     D. Beller, Ed.
Internet-Draft                                           S. Belotti, Ed.
Updates: draft-ietf-ccamp-layer0-types (if                         Nokia
         approved)                                              H. Zheng
Intended status: Standards Track                                 I. Busi
Expires: 26 August 2021                                           Huawei
                                                            E. Le Rouzic
                                                                  Orange
                                                        22 February 2021

>             A YANG Data Model for Layer 0 Types - Revision 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            A YANG Data Model for Layer 0 Types - Extension
```

                 draft-esdih-ccamp-layer0-types-ext-00

Abstract

   This document defines a collection of common data types and groupings
   in the YANG data modeling language, which are used in several YANG

>    modules for wavelength Division multiplexing (WDM) transport

Reviewer 2: correct

   networks.  The YANG module ietf-layer0-types-ext updates ietf-
   layer0-types [I-D.ietf-ccamp-layer0-types], which has been reduced in
   scope prior to publication to only cover spectrum management related

>    aspects required for ietf-wson-topology [I-D.ietf-ccamp-wson-yang].

Reviewer 2: > I do not think we need to reference the history and the WSON topology model here.
> 
> Moreover, idnits complains with references in the abstract.

Maybe the reference of wson topology is not correct, but it is important to underline what is the reason and the context of this extension. The fact that layer0-type has been reduced  "to only cover spectrum management related
   aspects" it is important and maybe we need to extend a bit that. If you have some suggestion for that with text ,  it could be added in next updated.

     8.1.  Normative References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
     8.2.  Informative References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
   Authors' Addresses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24

1.  Introduction

   YANG [RFC7950] is a data modeling language used to model
   configuration data, state data, Remote Procedure Calls, and
   notifications for network management protocols such as NETCONF
   [RFC6241].  The YANG language supports a small set of built-in data
   types and provides mechanisms to derive other types from the built-in
   types.

   This document introduces a collection of common data types derived
   from the built-in YANG data types.  The derived types and groupings
   are designed to be the common types applicable for modeling Traffic
   Engineering (TE) features as well as non-TE features (e.g., physical
   network configuration aspect) for Layer 0 optical networks in
   model(s) defined outside of this document.

1.1.  Requirements Language

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this

>    document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 [RFC2119].

Reviewer: This draft is not using RFC2119 requirements language: this section can be removed

   All drafts are required to have an IANA considerations section (see
   Guidelines for Writing an IANA Considerations Section in RFCs
   [RFC5226] for a guide).  If the draft does not require IANA to do
   anything, the section contains an explicit statement that this is the
   case (as above).  If there are no requirements for IANA, the section
   will be removed during conversion into an RFC by the RFC Editor.

7.  Security Considerations

   All drafts are required to have a security considerations section.
   See RFC 3552 [RFC3552] for a guide.

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

   [I-D.ietf-ccamp-dwdm-if-param-yang]
              Galimberti, G., Kunze, R., Burk, A., Hiremagalur, D., and
              G. Grammel, "A YANG model to manage the optical interface
              parameters for an external transponder in a WDM network",
              Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-ccamp-dwdm-

Beller, et al.           Expires 26 August 2021                [Page 22]

Internet-Draft         Layer 0 Types - Revision 2          February 2021

              if-param-yang-05, 18 November 2020,
              <https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-ccamp-dwdm-if-

>               param-yang-05>.

Reviewer: Since the dwdm-if model will use this mode, I think this reference should be informative

   [I-D.ietf-ccamp-layer0-types]
              Zheng, H., Lee, Y., Guo, A., Lopez, V., and D. King, "A
              YANG Data Model for Layer 0 Types", Work in Progress,
              Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-ccamp-layer0-types-09, 29
              December 2020, <https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-
              ccamp-layer0-types-09>.

   [I-D.ietf-ccamp-optical-impairment-topology-yang]
              Lee, Y., Auge, L., Lopez, V., Galimberti, G., and D.
              Beller, "A Yang Data Model for Optical Impairment-aware
              Topology", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-
              ccamp-optical-impairment-topology-yang-05, 2 November
              2020, <https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-ccamp-
              optical-impairment-topology-yang-05>.

   [I-D.ietf-ccamp-wson-yang]
              Zheng, H., Lee, Y., Guo, A., Lopez, V., and D. King, "A
              YANG Data Model for WSON (Wavelength Switched Optical
              Networks)", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-
              ccamp-wson-yang-28, 29 December 2020,
              <https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-ccamp-wson-yang-
              28>.

> 

Reviewer: I think we can remove this reference (see comment to the abstract)

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119>.

> 

Reviewer: I think we can remove this reference (see comment above on section 1.1)

   [RFC6241]  Enns, R., Ed., Bjorklund, M., Ed., Schoenwaelder, J., Ed.,
              and A. Bierman, Ed., "Network Configuration Protocol
              (NETCONF)", RFC 6241, DOI 10.17487/RFC6241, June 2011,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6241>.

   [RFC7950]  Bjorklund, M., Ed., "The YANG 1.1 Data Modeling Language",
              RFC 7950, DOI 10.17487/RFC7950, August 2016,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7950>.

   [RFC8795]  Liu, X., Bryskin, I., Beeram, V., Saad, T., Shah, H., and
              O. Gonzalez de Dios, "YANG Data Model for Traffic
              Engineering (TE) Topologies", RFC 8795,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8795, August 2020,

>               <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8795>.

Reviewer: I think we can remove this reference: RFC8795 is not mentioned in the draft text
